Data, one of the most underlying driven power in the current age, very much reflects both social and personal activities. Presented as concrete numbers, data serves as a way of quantifying all the abstract events rather than the past personal observations, therefore convincing millions of people so greatly that both techniques and needs of data analysis are developing significantly. Yet at the current moment still in the early stage of big data era, despite the pursuit of a more effective way to achieve implications from data, data objectivity is also in urgent need of reflection, according to *[Critical Questions for Big Data](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UHIPYi6UyY1hSlXQwcxkZ5EQdipexVIx/view)* and *[Data Humanism](http://giorgialupi.com/data-humanism-my-manifesto-for-a-new-data-wold/)*.

Though real data comes from collection thus keeping objective on number itself, the entire process (categorized into four parts from my understanding: purposes, sources, interpretations and decisions) contains high subjectivity, therefore losing objectivity and even essential meaning to jump into conclusions especially with inappropriate or without contexts:
- Purpose: Why collecting these certain data? 
- Source: Where does the sample come from and for what reason they are chosen to observe? 
- Interpretation: Who is the interpreter and what’s his/her role in the general issue? From what aspects does he/she interpret?
- Decision: What features are counted as decisive factors and why? How should they weigh differently yet legitimately?

Any answer to the above questions can, from my perspective, be considered as part of the specific context in terms of one certain data set. Very much similar to social experiments, the more appropriate features they recognize from the general context, the more accurate results they get on the relationship between behaviors and motivations. In terms of data, not only the information of where the data is generated and collected, but selections and decisions that shape and narrow down interpretations also contribute to the effectiveness of data analysis - the better data and context match, the more sense it makes.

Taking my previous coding exercise as an example. I was supposed to survey students’ preference on which floor they stay in Academic Building and got the results with the majority staying in the IMA studio. I then realized the research process indeed lost many contexts on “source” since I shared it mostly to my IMA classmates, meaning that the IMA label already embedded in results thus doomed to be biased — “the data is skewed from the beginning” (Boyd&Crawford 669); let alone other features such as data size, respective weight, etc all lack further consideration.

Putting both authors into conversation, one key viewpoint that they would highly agree with is that data inherently has limitations. Boyd and Crawford elaborate how data is limited due to the context, while Lupi directly says, “Failing to represent these limitations and nuances and blindly putting numbers in a chart is like reviewing a movie by analyzing the chemical properties of the cellulose on which the images were recorded.” However, Boyd and Crawford in *Critical Questions for Big Data* focus more on the social media context, stating the imperfections and social consequences brought up by collecting, accessing and manipulating data in terms of computational development. In contrast, Lupi as a data visualizer lies more in the aesthetic aspect. Instead of encouraging improvements to objectify data, Lupi suggests embracing and even visualizing the imperfections, in other words, personalization. As for me, these two texts actually represent two of the current main values on data, i.e, computational and artistic perspectives. Objectivity is crucial to science researches and social analysis without doubt, yet it is errors and nuances that made artistic work differ from accurate computation. Context then matters more in this general situation after all.
